README.md, before:

# WebAssembly Plugin Kubernetes client Proxy Host Functions Library

This is a host functions library, which is build in the `client-go` Kubernetes style fashion, that allows to embed interaction
with the Kubernetes API from the WebAssembly plugins generated by the [go-plugin](https://github.com/knqyf263/go-plugin).

## Embedding host functions into the application

The host client proxy implementation has the following set of predefined configurations functions for instantiation connection
to the Kubernetes cluster, with following access of the cluster configurations:

1. `WithDefaultKubeConfig` - when config file is located on the path `$HOME\.kube\config`.
2. `WithKubeConfig` - when config file location is provided with parameter.
3. `WithInClusterConfig` - with the config embedded into the Pod service account.
4. `func() (dynamic.Interface, error)` - any function that returns a `dynamic.Interface` client instance.

To embed the library into the host application, it's necessary to add a call of the `Instantiate(...)` function in the
`wazero.Runtime` configuration, as described below

```go
import "github.com/dmvolod/wasm-k8s-host-proxy/impl/host"

...
p, err := getter.NewGetterPlugin(ctx, getter.WazeroRuntime(func(ctx context.Context) (wazero.Runtime, error) {
	r, err := getter.DefaultWazeroRuntime()(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}

	// Register host functions from the Kubernetes client proxy library.
	return r, host.Instantiate(ctx, r, func() (dynamic.Interface, error) {
		return fakeClient, nil
	})
}))
```

## Using the Kubernetes client API in the WebAssembly plugin

It's very easy to use Kubernetes client proxy API, the same as standard `client-go` dynamic client API.
The only difference is that instead of standard `k8s.io/api` objects binding, generated objects
from the [Kubewarden](https://github.com/kubewarden) project are used, i.e. [k8s-objects](https://github.com/kubewarden/k8s-objects).

```go
import corev1 "github.com/kubewarden/k8s-objects/api/core/v1"
...
cm := &corev1.ConfigMap{}
cmGVR := kubernetes.GroupVersionResource{
	Version:  "v1",
	Resource: "configmaps",
}

err := kubeClientProxy.Resource(cmGVR).Namespace("default").Get(ctx, "demo", kubernetes.GetOptions{}, cm)
if err != nil {
	return nil, err
}
```

Seem more details in the [examples](./examples/simple-get/README.md)

> **_Note:_** This component is under active development and may have a large number of incompatible changes and additions.

## Library Development

> **_Note:_** Since the `go-plugin` doesn't support these functions yet, it's necessary to regenerate the stubs using the 
> generator built from the source codes of the pull request [35](https://github.com/knqyf263/go-plugin/pull/35).

Generating Kubernetes proxy library stubs

```bash
protoc --go-plugin_out=. --go-plugin_opt=paths=source_relative internal/host/kubernetes/kubernetes.proto
```

Commit message:

Switch to k8s-objects v1.24.0-kw7 with ObjectKind interface support (#2)
* Switch to k8s-objects v1.24.0-kw7 with ObjectKind interface support

* Fix code and notes after go-plugin v0.7.0 release

README.md, after:

# WebAssembly Plugin Kubernetes client Proxy Host Functions Library

This is a host functions library, which is build in the `client-go` Kubernetes style fashion, that allows to embed interaction
with the Kubernetes API from the WebAssembly plugins generated by the [go-plugin](https://github.com/knqyf263/go-plugin).

## Embedding host functions into the application

The host client proxy implementation has the following set of predefined configurations functions for instantiation connection
to the Kubernetes cluster, with following access of the cluster configurations:

1. `WithDefaultKubeConfig` - when config file is located on the path `$HOME\.kube\config`.
2. `WithKubeConfig` - when config file location is provided with parameter.
3. `WithInClusterConfig` - with the config embedded into the Pod service account.
4. `func() (dynamic.Interface, error)` - any function that returns a `dynamic.Interface` client instance.

To embed the library into the host application, it's necessary to add a call of the `Instantiate(...)` function in the
`wazero.Runtime` configuration, as described below

```go
import "github.com/dmvolod/wasm-k8s-host-proxy/impl/host"

...
p, err := getter.NewGetterPlugin(ctx, getter.WazeroRuntime(func(ctx context.Context) (wazero.Runtime, error) {
	r, err := getter.DefaultWazeroRuntime()(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}

	// Register host functions from the Kubernetes client proxy library.
	return r, host.Instantiate(ctx, r, func() (dynamic.Interface, error) {
		return fakeClient, nil
	})
}))
```

## Using the Kubernetes client API in the WebAssembly plugin

It's very easy to use Kubernetes client proxy API, the same as standard `client-go` dynamic client API.
The only difference is that instead of standard `k8s.io/api` objects binding, generated
[k8s-objects](https://github.com/kubewarden/k8s-objects) from the [Kubewarden](https://github.com/kubewarden) project are used. 

```go
import corev1 "github.com/kubewarden/k8s-objects/api/core/v1"
...
cm := &corev1.ConfigMap{}

err := kubeClientProxy.Namespace("default").Get(ctx, "demo", kubernetes.GetOptions{}, cm)
if err != nil {
	return nil, err
}
```

Seem more details in the [examples](./examples/simple-get/README.md)

> **_Note:_** This component is under active development and may have a large number of incompatible changes and additions.

## Library Development

> **_Note:_** To regenerate code stubs and examples, at least [v0.7.0](https://github.com/knqyf263/go-plugin/releases/tag/v0.7.0)
> `go-plugin` version is required.

Generating Kubernetes proxy library stubs

```bash
protoc --go-plugin_out=. --go-plugin_opt=paths=source_relative internal/host/kubernetes/kubernetes.proto
```
